>> Mike North: So
under consideration right now.
So when we say this is an ES
2018 stage 2 proposal here,
that means that there's
discussion going on about adding
the ability to have public and instance
fields on classes in regular JavaScript.
The hope is,
when I say ES2018 I'm not promising or
indicating that it will be ready
in the 2018 version of the draft.
I should really probably just say stage 2
because there's no guarantee when it'll be
finalized.
But this is the proposed syntax here,
where instance fields like this
planet Earth I have as
an instance property of person.
That will be treated just like, that
is the equivalent to putting a property
on an instance in the constructor.
So planet Earth here,
that is being treated the same way
we are treating name more or less.
Think of it as in the constructor for each
instance we are saying This.planet=earth.
It is not the same as
placing it on the prototype.
Static fields do not
require an instance and
it’s the equivalent of just tacking
something onto a constructor.
So we should be able to do something
like Person._counter and
we’d be able to get this value.
In this case, we can see that as we create
new instances of person that counter is
incremented and so that is state
that is attached to the whole class
as opposed to any given instance.
>> Mike North: I just want to draw
a distinction between classes and
prototypes.
If we did this here, a very common
snag that particularly people who come
at JavaScript from other languages, and
who sort of learn what they
need to learn as they go along.
They never really are forced to come to
terms with what prototypes mean here.
In this case, we have a property
tags on the prototype of Person.
The value of tags is an array and
that is a mutable value JavaScript, right?
Like we, we can alter that array and
it is in fact shared across all instances.
So here we can see we create two
instances of Person and we go from.
We push a tag into the array going
through p1, person number 1.
And we observe that person number 2
also like seems to have this tag on it.
And the reason is, in this situation, we
are sharing that same instance of an array
tags across all persons that we create.
It's one array they're all point to it.
Because there's only one copy
of this prototype in memory.
It's sort of the fallback whenever
we're asking for properties
on an instance of person, and those
instances don't have anything for us.
We go to the prototype and
we see what's there, right?
And in this case that's mutable data,
and so that's gonna create.
This is unintuitive for
a lot of developers.
If you're coming to
JavaScript from Java and
you think that prototype is like a class
you're gonna be surprised by this.
I just wanna clarify that
if we change that and
now we have class person with tags like
this, now this is in the constructor and
that tags value, that array will be
cleared on a per instance basis,
and in fact, we will not see that
leaking across incidences anymore.
So when I say the classes have a way of
sending down some of the sharp edges and
corners around prototypes,
that's what I'm referring to here, right?
We don't really have,
unless we use the starter keyword,
we kinda have to opine to shared
multiple state across instances.
And sort of that being the default.